# iGEE 

## Summary 
The iGEE web tool, a google earth engine app, was built to facilitate the download of the temperature and landcover datasets for the whole of Australia. iGEE, software as an application (SaaS), provides free and open earth observation datasets on Australian land surface temperature and landcover changes to support SDG research, climate change actions, and governments decision making so that stakeholders can easily assess what is actually happening to Australian cities and communities, starting with data on urban heat islands effect as a priority environmental issue.  

## System architecture 
The diagram illustrates the three-tier architecture of the iGEE web tool. The first tier represents the ‘data acquisition layer’ which accesses the satellite from the GEE catalog and stores the boundary, i.e. the Statistical Area Level [SA1](https://www.abs.gov.au/statistics/standards/australian-statistical-geography-standard-asgs-edition-3/jul2021-jun2026/main-structure-and-greater-capital-city-statistical-areas/statistical-area-level-1) data under GEE cloud assets. The second tier is called the ‘operation layer’, which serves as a logic tier of the web tool. It uses GEE JavaScript libraries to connect the ‘data acquisition layer’ to leverage Landsat, Sentinel and MODIS EO satellite imageries to calculate and export Land Surface Temperature (LST) and Landcover (NDVI & NDBI) parameters for Australia. The third tier represents the ‘iGEE user interface’, which contains the user operation panel and map panel. GEE ui libraries were used to build this layer that connects the backend ‘data acquisition layer’ and ‘operation layer’. The following sections explain the operation behind each tier. 
